GSoC'21 Quarter Progress: Aitik Gupta (#61)
matplotlib/matplotblog: content/posts/GSoC_2021_Quarter/index.md

---
title: "GSoC'21: Quarter Progress"
date: 2021-08-03T18:48:00+05:30
draft: false
categories: ["News", "GSoC"]
description: "Quarter Progress with Google Summer of Code 2021 project under NumFOCUS: Aitik Gupta"
displayInList: true
author: Aitik Gupta

resources:
- name: featuredImage
  src: "AitikGupta_GSoC.png"
  params:
    showOnTop: true
---

**“<ins>Matplotlib, I want 多个汉字 in between my text.</ins>”**

> Let's say you wanted some (多个汉字 -> multiple Chinese characters) in between your English text, to be rendered by Matplotlib.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's say you wanted Matplotlib to render 多个汉字 (multiple Chinese characters) in between your English text.
```
I think might be cleaner to go your standard example, something like  
Let's say you wanted to label something on a plot "there is 多个汉字 in between", which is multiple Chinese characters in between English  characters.

Author: Let me fix that

Or conversely, let's say you use a Chinese font with Matplotlib, but you had English text in between (which is quite common).

> Assumption: the Chinese font doesn't have those English glyphs, and vice versa

With this short writeup, I'll talk about how does a migration from a font-first to a text-first approach in Matplotlib looks like, which ideally solves the above problem.
### Have the fonts?
Logically, the very first step to solving this would be to ask whether you _have_ multiple fonts, right?

Matplotlib doesn't ship [CJK](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_CJK_fonts) (Chinese Japanese Korean) fonts, which ideally contains these Chinese glyphs. It does try to cover most grounds with the [default font](https://matplotlib.org/stable/users/dflt_style_changes.html#normal-text) it ships with, however.

> So if you don't have a font to render your Chinese characters, go ahead and install one! Matplotlib will find your installed fonts.

Reviewer: Is this true out of the box or do you need to rebuild the font cache?

Author: We do need to rebuild the cache, but the statement was meant to be a generic one.. that Matplotlib _can_ find your custom installed fonts.

Author: Modified:
```txt
Matplotlib will find your installed fonts (after rebuilding the cache, that is).
```

4. That's it!

A quick overhaul of the above piece of code^
```cpp
bool ft_get_glyph(FT_Glyph &placeholder) {
	FT_Error not_found = FT_Get_Glyph(this->get_face(), &placeholder);
	if (not_found) return False;
	else return True;
}

// within driver code
for (uint i=0; i<fallback_list.size(); i++) {
	// iterate through all FT2Font objects
	bool was_found = fallback_list[i]->ft_get_glyph(placeholder);
	if (was_found) break;
}
```

With the idea surrounding this implementation, the [Agg backend](https://matplotlib.org/stable/api/backend_agg_api.html) is able to render a document (either through GUI, or a PNG) with multiple fonts!

<p align="center">
    <figure>
        <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/43996118/128347495-1f4f858d-33d3-4119-8732-5b26c4e9ca2a.png" alt="ChineseInBetween" />
        <figcaption style="text-align: center; font-style: italic;">PNG straight outta Matplotlib!</figcaption>
    </figure>
</p>

## Python C-API is hard, at first!
I've spent days at Python C-API's [argument doc](https://docs.python.org/3/c-api/arg.html), and it's hard to get what you need at first, ngl.

> But, with the help of some amazing people in GSoC community ([@srijan-paul](https://srijan-paul.github.io/), [@atharvaraykar](https://atharvaraykar.me/)) and amazing mentors, blockers begone!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But, with the help of some amazing people in the GSoC community ([@srijan-paul](https://srijan-paul.github.io/), [@atharvaraykar](https://atharvaraykar.me/)) and amazing mentors, blockers begone!
```

also 😁 that's so awesome!

Reviewer: also to remind myself for when this gets tweeted out, @_injuly & @AtharvaRaykar

Author: 😄 Cool
